>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We are going
to talk about selectors.
So where we left off was with
converting our reducer to use entity.
But they changed the data structure.
So pulling data directly from
the store is a bit messy.
So for instance if we looked here,
this is prior to dumping out.
We had to jump through some
hoops to make that work.
And so what we're going to do
is we are going to introduce
selectors that allows us to condense or
abstract out some of this
data manipulation here
into what I would say is this
composable query if you will.
So to build this out,
we're going to back to our reducer and
we're going to build out
a first layer of selectors.
So what will happen here is I
build out the low-level selectors
in the feature reducer.
And then I expose them in kind
of the top level reducer,
because ultimately is you
may want to combine them.
And so having all your
selectors in kind of one place,
especially when you're using computed or
combined selectors, that's helpful.
So I think of when you
are dealing with selectors,
have kind of a singular place you know
kind of thinking of it as an APAN point.
So will just build out our selectors here,
I think that was almost
Spanish like [FOREIGN].
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the first one
is going to be I'll also precursor,
selectors are just functions so
they take some information and
then they give you something else.
So a very, very simple selector, and
this is technically not
a selector in the NGRX sense yet
but if we wanted to get selected
project ID, you would pass in state.
And so this would be project state and
return what,
well, state dot SelectedProjectId.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Also, if we go to
our adapter, and we click on this.
That there's a GET selectors
method that returns,
some additional selectors for
you, right out of the gate.
So, for instance if you wanted all
the IDs or entities, or more importantly
if you wanted all of everything
that it will return that for you.
So what we are going to do is,
pull this off using destructuring.
So we go select Ids,
selectEntities and selectAll.
From adapter.getSelectors.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then, because
selectIds, selectEntties, selectAll,
that's not super descriptive, we're going
to export these with something a little
bit,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: More informative.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: SelectIds,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ProjectEntities,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: SelectAllProjects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right, so we
built out these low-level selectors here.
So these are just returning right from
the state, it's returning specific things.
But if we go into the top-level reducer.
And here,
let's spilled out the selectors that
we want to expose to the outside world.
So, am just going to go,
projects selectors, and
from here, we're going to create
a feature selector, which is,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: SelectProjectState
equals,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke:
FromProjects.ProjectState.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what this does,
I'm gonna break this down to just
a second line here cuz this is a bit long,
so we can just see it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is we're saying,
I wanna get or select these feature off of
the main state which is for the most part,
the equivalent of this right here.
So we're saying give me
this piece of state.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then from here, we
can build out some additional selectors.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Select ProjectIds.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
this is going to take two parameters, so
selectProjectState.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
And,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: From projects,
selectProjectIds.
Sort of saying, give us the state and
then we're going to use this
smaller selector down here
to create the real selector.
If we look in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This returns
a memorized selector and
I'll explain what that
is in just a moment.
So when state changes,
that it runs through
the selector and it value.
So think of this as like well,
like an something changes,
it goes through,
through the selector and
it returns something new.
But, if you make a selection and
state has not changed, it's just
going to return the last known state.
So this is essentially
the memo is station pattern,
I believe or the memo pattern is that
it's saying nothing has changed.
So here's just the latest cache version.
And so this is very, very efficient
that it's only going to re-compute
the data when one or
more of these parameters changed.
So, on one hand it's efficient that if
nothing changes likely to re-compute and
do.
Especially if you are doing
any kind of computation.
It's just gonna give
you the last value but
on the flip side if something does change,
it is going to push up a new value.
So, on one hand because it doesn't,
if it doesn't need to, awesome.
But it will if it needs to, also awesome.
So there's benefits on both sides.
All right, so for the sake of time,
let me just copy these down, and
we'll just adjust these.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll
go select Entities.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Entities, and
we'll go selectAllProjects,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
So we've created some low level
selectors at the feature reducer.
Then in our top level reducer,
we have exposed them for consumption and
this is, these are the selectors
that we will interact directly with.
So then I need to go to the here.
And I need to make this available.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then what
we can do because it is available.
Let's go here, take all of this,
and we are going to replace it.
With select and then selectAllProjects.
Let's see where this coming from.
There we go.
And so now we're no longer having to kind
of manually manipulate the data that's
coming to our component.
Is that using entity adapter you get
some kind of pre built slaughters.
More importantly is that
in our topple over reducer,
that we can handle any kind of
computed data that we want to do.
So that when it hits our component
its in the exact shape that we need,
which is critical.
And so if you ever get to.
This applies to any observable stream.
And if you get to the bottom
of an observable stream,
like you are in your .subscribe block and
you're fiddling with data,
and that handler of like, I've got this
data and then I need to transfer it.
I need to do this stuff.
This is very common when you have
promises cuz there's not a concept of
really chaining operators and promises.
You can change promises and accomplish
that but in observable it's very easy.
And so
what you want is by the end of the stream,
when you hit your subscribe lock or
when you piped in to a template
pipe that your data is in
exact shape that you need.
So that is drop it in, and let it go.
And so something like this just
philosophically, from an architectural
standpoint, makes a lot more sense than
having to kind of fiddle and modify and
transform the data to something I can use,
especially at the component level.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And that is Selectors
101, so we're gonna revisit this in
a little bit and I'll show you
how to combine this selector.
But pretty straightforward,
just think of this is queries, and
so you're allowed to query this slice of
your data which is exactly, especially
when at the low level we're saying,
I wanna get just the select project ID.
And then you're starting to filter
this up, and compose these, and
do slightly more sophisticated things.